update README (#234)
code-kern-ai/refinery: README.md

![](header.png)

<div align="center">
    <p><b>The data scientist's open-source choice to scale, assess and maintain natural language data.</b></p>
    <p><b>Treat training data like a software artifact.</b></p>
</div>

<p align=center>

>     <a href="https://pypi.org/project/kern-refinery/1.3.0/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/pypi-yellow.svg" alt="pypi"></a>

Reviewer: i think we are at 1.4

- [🌟 Star History](#-star-history)
- [📃 License](#-license)

## 🧑‍💻 Why _refinery_?

There are already many other tools available to build training data. Why did we decide to build _yet another one_?

### Enabling ideas of one-person-armies

We believe that developers can have crazy ideas, and we want to lower the barrier for them to go for that idea. _refinery_ is designed to build labeled training data much faster, so that it takes you very little time to prototype an idea. We've received much love for exactly that, so make sure to give it a try for your next project.

### Extending your existing labeling approach

> _refinery_ is more than a labeling tool. It has a built-in labeling editor, but its main advantages come with automation and data management. You can integrate any kind of heuristic to label what is possible automatically, and then focus on headache-causing subsets afterwards. If you do the labeling in _refinery_ or any other tool (even crowd labeled) doesn't matter!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_refinery_ is more than a labeling tool. It has a built-in labeling editor, but its main advantages come with automation and data management. You can integrate any kind of heuristic to label what is possible automatically, and then focus on headache-causing subsets afterwards. Whether you do the labeling in _refinery_ or any other tool (even crowd labeled) doesn't matter!
```

### Integrations

Lastly, _refinery_ supports [SDK actions](https://github.com/code-kern-ai/refinery-python) like pulling and pushing data. Data-centric AI redefines labeling to be more than a one-time job by giving it an iterative workflow, so we aim to give you more power every day by providing end-to-end capabilities, growing the large-scale availability of high-quality training data. Use our SDK to program integrations with your existing landscapes.

## Your benefits

You can automate tons of repetitive tasks, gain better insights into the data labeling workflow, receive an implicit documentation for your training data, and can ultimately build better models in shorter time.

Our goal is to make training data building feel more like a programmatic and enjoyable task, instead of something tedious and repetitive. _refinery_ is our contribution to this goal. And we're constantly aiming to improve this contribution.

If you like what we're working on, please leave a ⭐!

## How does Kern AI make money, if refinery is open-source?

> You won't believe how often we get that question - and it is a fair one :) Put short, the open-source version of _refinery_ is currently a single-user version, and you can get access to a multi-user version in our commercial version. Additionally, we have commercial products on top of _refinery_, e.g. to use the _refinery_ automations as an actual realtime prediction API.

Reviewer: :) als 🙂 ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You won't believe how often we get that question - and it is a fair one 🙂 Put short, the open-source version of _refinery_ is currently a single-user version, and you can get access to a multi-user environment with our commercial options. Additionally, we have commercial products on top of _refinery_, e.g. to use the _refinery_ automations as an actual realtime prediction API.
```

Generally, we are passionate about open-source and want to contribute as much as possible.

## 🤓 Features

For a detailed overview of features, please look into our [docs](https://docs.kern.ai).

### (Semi-)automated labeling workflow for NLP tasks

- Both manual and programmatic for classifications and span-labeling
- Integration with state-of-the-art libraries and frameworks
- Creation and management of lookup lists/knowledge bases to support during labeling
- Neural search-based retrieval of similar records and outliers
- Sliceable labeling sessions to drill-down on specific subsets
- Multiple labeling tasks possible per project
- Rich library of ready-made automations in our open-source [bricks](https://github.com/code-kern-ai/bricks) library

### Extensive data management and monitoring

> 

Reviewer: i would have expected a note to our data browser since this is data management?

Author: makes sense, added that

If you run into any issues during installation, please don't hesitate to reach out to us (see community section below).

### Persisting data

By default, we store the data to the directory `refinery/postgres-data`. If you want to change that path, you need to modify the variable `LOCAL_VOLUME` of the `start` script of your operating system. To remove data, simply delete the volume folder. **Make sure to delete only if you don't need the data any longer - this is irreversible!**

## 📘 Documentation and tutorials

The best way to start with _refinery_ is our [**quick start**](https://docs.kern.ai/refinery/quickstart).

> You can find extensive guides in our [docs](https://docs.kern.ai) and [tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCru-6X24b76TRsL6KWMFEFg/videos) on our YouTube channel. We've also prepared a [repository with sample projects](https://github.com/code-kern-ai/sample-projects) which you can clone.

Reviewer: i think i would have linked to https://www.youtube.com/@kern_ai/featured (and ensured that the home screen is a bit more optimized with playlists directly on the screen)

Author: will change this to https://www.youtube.com/@kern_ai/videos

| [neural-search](https://github.com/code-kern-ai/refinery-neural-search) | Neural search for _refinery_. Manages similarity search powered by Qdrant and outlier detection, both based on vector representations of the project records. |
| [zero-shot](https://github.com/code-kern-ai/refinery-zero-shot) | Zero-shot module for _refinery_. Enables the integration of 🤗 Hugging Face zero-shot classifiers as an off-the-shelf no-code heuristic. |
| [entry](https://github.com/code-kern-ai/refinery-entry) | Login and registration screen for refinery. Implemented via Ory Kratos. |
| [ui](https://github.com/code-kern-ai/refinery-ui) | UI for _refinery_. Used to interact with the whole system; to find out how to best work with the system, check out our docs. |
| [doc-ock](https://github.com/code-kern-ai/refinery-doc-ock) | Usage statistics collection for _refinery_. If users allow it, this collects product insight data used to optimize the user experience. |
| [gateway-proxy](https://github.com/code-kern-ai/refinery-gateway-proxy) | Gateway proxy for _refinery_. Manages incoming requests and forwards them to the gateway. Used by the Python SDK. |

> | [parent-images](https://github.com/code-kern-ai/refinery-parent-images/tree/parent-image) | Shared images used by _refinery_. Used to reduce the required space for _refinery_. _Not yet listed in architecture diagram_ |

Reviewer: link doesnt work

Reviewer: also i think this is outdated since we now use a submodule & n parent image repos e.g. https://github.com/code-kern-ai/refinery-exec-env-parent-image

Author: fixed that
